# The Wall Street Journal

Throughout my childhood, my weekend routine has been ruminating on the *Southern Weekly* my father brought home. *Southern Weekly* is special both in its appearance and contents. Its pages are unusually huge, images unusually appealing, and contents unusually thought-provoking. There are many aspects that I appreciate. One of the most special aspects is its lens. The weekly newspaper normally reflects a social event from the perspective of a single person or family. I can resonate and live their life vicariously. That was so powerful and left me think deep about the impact and implications of any reformations. Though I learnt its editorial guideline --"Justice, Conscience, Love, Rationality" – many years after I read it, I think it adheres to its principle pretty well.

When I applied for college, I chose my major as math and society, wishing to use data analysis to better allocation resources. However, I found out academia society is too aloft. I felt some debates among the Ivy League privileges kids are groundless and prejudiced. My friends who had wines paired with steak for dinner would often complain about how evil rich people are and how exploited they felt. Doesn’t “Let them eat cake” sound familiar? So I switched my majors to math and CS soon after I started college.

Reality is a sphere puzzle to me. Each of us is limited by our backgrounds and circumstances. That’s why perspectives and opinions are important. We may never get to the truth, but with more thoughts, we can eliminate more fallacies and better converge to it. We may even reconstruct the past and approximate the future. Most importantly, we stay true to fact as much as we can, fighting to overcome our inclined biases. That’s epic. 

I have an ingrained desire to explore the causes of a subset of cultural phenomena, among them equality, social mobility, capitalism, communism, and emerging markets are always top priority. I spent years to collect related resources and have gathered plenty at hand to digest. With that, I will be content with what I have now and absorb them before moving on to more involved insights. 

I always love reading, more recently, started enjoying writing as well. Probably because I no longer need to do academic writing with a set purpose by instructor. Once I started write for myself, writing becomes so peaceful. Like a flow or streams, I write whatever drives me. Sometimes when I get lucky, I will catch one or two subconscious ideas that emerge to the surface. I know more about myself, reflect more about what matters to me the most, and start to construct my own system of reasoning. And that is very rewarding. 

Like I/O is an indispensable part in computer system, writing is as important a function as reading. It is a safe place where I can stay 100% percent true to myself. While I love to share my ideas, my most genuine writings, however, will be published anonymously because I don’t want to be fettered by any persona. Fate will connect ideas that are destined to inspire. Citing a quote from Zhongshu Qian, “If you love an egg, what’s the need to get to know the hen?”

